Oh.
I'm trying again.
Oop, oh, here we go. Oops. Hi Benjamin,
can you hear me? You can.
Yeah, we have you on mute.
You are muted and then...
You're muted, take yourself off mute.
Thank you, yeah, yeah, got ya. Thank you.
(laughs) Great. Um, welcome to the Regs Review Committee.
Um, we have 10 minutes... 15 minutes
for your submission. And I'm sure there are a lot of questions for
you, but if you want to start by just highlighting for us,
you know, what has, um, brought you to make this complaint and a
little bit about the background of your business that would be really helpful.
Sure thing, yeah. Um, so I-I've actually sold my business,
so I'm not actually in the industry per se anymore, um,
but it's just something that I still very much care about, sort of small food
businesses because I see the sort of importance they have on,
um, on my community here in Nelson and sort of in various
communities. And uh,
also, um,
I-I just think that, you know, based on what happened with this Food Safety Levy,
that I... When I first saw it, um, a couple of years ago when it came out,
was just sort of shocked at how that happened.
And so, that sort of was the-the whole impetus for me to start this
campaign that I'm running for what I'm calling fairer food safety and
proportionate food safety for small foo- small and mi- what I say
is micro food businesses as well. Um, so
I'm, uh, I've started that campaign as a result of this levy which
I've, um, submitted to you about, um, 'cause I was sort of so
concerned. And yeah, I got this petition, I'm not sure if you're aware, I had a
petition which went to the Petitions Committee.
Um, and that had nearly 1,900 signatures, um, that's still available
online. Um,
and, uh, and I also have a now,
a Facebook sort of group where, um, small food businesses have joined
and that has over 350 members, um, who
are sort of coming to me basically for advocacy and also just for help with
understanding their obligations under the Food Safety, um,
Act, and, um, to understand why, wh- why they're finding it so
hard to get, um, uh, input a- and
participation in the decision-making or why they don't know what's going on.
Um, so yeah, that's how, uh, how I sort of came to do this
work. I- I... The business I was running was a coffee cart which has been around
for... I- in Nelson it's been, it's been running for over 40 years so it's
legendary basically, um, and I love it.
It's a sort of Dutch donuts and coffee cart and, um,
yeah, my... I sort of remember it from my childhood, so it's super special.
You're nodding your head, I don't know if you know it or something.
I- I just, I love it, I love these businesses. I'm with you mate.
Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So yeah, I mean obviously
sentimental value and just like being from Nelson myself had just like...
It just represents Nelson to me, I guess, as well, and I love that so
much. Um,
yeah. Um, so yeah, I'd- I had the...
I've already had the thing with the Petitions Committee.
I've had no sort of feedback from them, I'm not actually sure where we're at with
that. Um, and I did have some, um, sort
of monthly, uh, meetings with Vince, um, from MPI for a little
bit, um, because he was sort of... They were looking at m- at
making some changes, um, but that sort of has ended
now. Um, yeah, and,
uh, I guess I'm, I- I'm not really sure
what to do about this problem, um, where to take it,
um,
but it just, um... But I found out that the Regulations Review Committee was
another option, and so, um, I'm not entirely sure
what, what is possible, um, here. You're...
I- I've obviously given my requests and my submission but yeah,
um, just really keen to have, um, a- a more
proportionate system and also, um, a fairer,
uh, and more proportionate decision-making process
around new policy as well, that's inclusive of small and micro food
businesses. Um, and it's not just predetermined outcomes which
is sort of what was clear in the term, in, in, um,
regards to this current levy.
I think, um, we, we have a few questions for you, um, do you
mind if we get into the questions now?
Yeah, yeah, sure.
I'll just check with my colleagues or else I'll go first.
Um, so, uh, one of our considerations is
whether, um, MPI has used their power here
to regulate in a way that you would have anticipated reading the primary
legislation. Um, so I want to ask you about, you know,
whether, um,
as you sort of saw it when the, when you heard about the levy, do you think that
was unusual? Um, why, you know, when you looked at it, did
you think it was reasonable? And
talk to us about the reaction from people you knew in the industry as well when
they saw it, and, um, were they surprised that it
was being enacted in this way?
Um,
well, the ironic thing is there was no reaction
because people didn't know about it. This was the problem.
(laughs) The only... The, the reaction came sort
of one to two years later when all of a sudden the people got a,
um, an email from their council saying, "Hey, you have to pay another
$150 um, for your, um,
food safety every year." Um, and, and...Either they got the letter
or they, um, they found out about my group, um, and it was when
I sort of told people, "Hey, this is happening," that people were
like, that was the first they heard about it.
And that is the comment I've got so...
Like, I could give you pages of that same comment of people saying, "I didn't even
know about it until I got the letter from my council," or, "Until you told me, I
didn't even know about this." Um, so the fact...
That- that alone was the first problem and then, of course, the second reaction
was, "This levy is not for us." You know, like when w- when I...
They say, "When I look at this council letter that I've got telling
me why I have to pay this levy, I don't see
why... I- I cannot understand why I'm being charged this
levy. Like, it doesn't apply to me," sort of thing.
Like, "It looks like it's benefiting, um, big
export companies and, um, that sort of thing, but it doesn't,
like, it doesn't change anything for us.
In fact, it makes it worse because we now have another cost to pay
on top of, uh, costs that are already
extortionate. Just have skyrocketed massively, massively in the 10
years since the new fo- uh, Food Act from 2014 was
enacted." Um, and I will mention at that point, there was a promise, uh,
a number of promises from the government that that act would result in, uh, more
efficient systems, so less bur- less regulatory burden and lower costs, and the
opposite has happened. It's now very high costs.
So people were very angry that, that costs have
already skyrocketed in the past 11 years since the new act
and another levy was now being charged that had not even
been justified. They sort of said when they look at the, the, um,
document, uh, the proposal document, there is not one piece of evidence in there
for why a levy is necessary. There's, um, there's sort of
hypotheses about there could be a danger to the system in the future, but there's
no... there's no actual concrete scientific evidence
cited in the, in that 52-page document as to why,
uh, more services are necessary.
Um, I've got a question from Joseph Mooney.
Yeah. Hi Benjamin. Um, look, I think thanks for your submission and I think
everyone on the table, uh, has a love of coffee and probably bagels as well.
So (laughs) but, um-
But putting, put to that, putting that one to one side, we have to consider, you
know, this against the, um, regulations and against the principles that we have to
assess this with. And just the first question I have is, um, I
think in, in your view, the levy does not comply with the cost recovery principles.
You know, could you just delve into that a little bit for us about why you think
that?
Um, yeah, I think it was mostly on, on the, um,
the principle of equity.
Um, and I'm sorry, I'm, I'm a little unprepared because I'm about to go on a tramp.
(laughs)
Um, uh, um- (laughs) Oh, I did, I did see the tea in the background there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. That's right.
So I literally have to run out the door after this.
Q- I can see. (laughs)
Tell us how it applies to small versus the bigger
businesses.
What was that? Sorry.
Yeah, in term, in terms of the principle of equity, um, you, I think, there's a
concern you have ar- around this applying sort of two
micro-businesses, small businesses and large
businesses. Um, does i- what's your concern there around the
equity principle?
Um, so I, I believe it was sort of around the lack of
proportionality that all businesses are ch- are, uh, subject to the
same system, the same... So that's, that was prior to the
levy already the case with the current, the current setup of the policy is
that it doesn't matter what size your business is, you're subject to the same level
of regulation and to the same fees, and the same applies with the levy.
It's a flat rate fee. So whether you're a
microbusiness or an exporter, you pay exactly
the same levy fee, um, even though the benefit is
so much different. So that was one, um, um, one
example of, of the equity principle, I think that, that I was
concerned about. Um, I'm just trying to find, to jog my memory what the
other stuff was. But, um, I'm sorry,
I can't quite remember, um, what else there was.
Yeah, no, no. Sure.
I think it was mostly around that proportionality thing.
(laughs)
Yeah. No, thanks.
Um, I want to also ask you about, um,
the consultation
that was done. So in your experience of it was actually coming to it
later, um, or were you involved at the beginning when the
consultation period was open?
Um, what we've figured out is that the pe- you can subscribe
to, to get MPI emails. You can go onto the MPI website and say, "I would like to
know about this thing and this thing." So if you sign up, um, to
certain... you tick a box to say, "Yes, tell me about this," then you
get, um, emails about it, but you don't
automatically get emails from MPI as a food business.
So, so, so I think a lot of businesses are not subscribed
and so they didn't receive... I, I was subscribed, so I received an
email, you know, which is among many other emails I get from MPI.
So it was... You really had to
pull out the weeds to sort of see that this one applied to you, which I
figured out. So I, I figured out that early, but I think many people didn't even
get that email from the get-go because they weren't subscribed to those
chan- those channels that MPI puts
out.
And, um, you can imagine the situation where government
departments are trying to raise these issues with lots and lots of small
players in any given sector, and they might not know that, that
Benjamin in Nelson is interested in this issue.
But what would you expect would be reasonable from a government department trying
to engage with, you know, a, a sector like yours where there are lots of
small players and then there are bigger ones?
My business is officially registered as is, uh, you know, all businesses.
Therefore, I should get an email because, because I'm officially
registered for fo- for food safety.
And so, I have paid the fees to
register. As a business that has paid the fees to
register, I should then receive, uh,
notification that those fees are
changing.It's like if someone raises their
prices, they say, "Hey," you know, my coffee, um, supplier had to
raise their prices. They emailed me and said, "Hey, we're raising our prices."
(laughs) And I would so, I would especially expect that from a government
agency. (laughs)
Uh, Benjamin, a different, a different question. Um, wondering if you are...
W- the committee's been made aware there's a partial waiver in place to ensure that
businesses with a home base in a food truck only charge the levy
once rather than on a per site basis. Did that come to your attention?
It did and I mean, that is, that was just absolutely off the
charts insane. I'm sorry to put it so strongly, but the fact that that
was even going to exist was bizarre.
Basically, I was gonna pay the levy twice because I prepare a
cake at home and sell it in my coffee cart.
But if I was McDonald's I would pay them p- the levy once because I'm a restaurant
that has a single location that makes the food and sells it.
So even though McDonald's does, you know, massively more trade than I
do, they pay h- they pay one levy and I was gonna pay double.
So I pointed at, that out to MPI very strongly.
I sort of had to keep repeating it and bring it up.
And so that, that, um, that finally,
um, happened that they, um... I had to really say it many times and they
finally said, "Okay, we'll make a waiver so that you're...
We agree, your business shouldn't pay twice as a tiny business
just because you have a separate coffee cart to your home kitchen where you make
the cake." So yeah, the levy is still a flat
rate levy for everyone and it's just now that I won't have to pay twice as much
a- as McDonald's. (laughs)
All right.
We've got, um, one more question for you and then we're gonna hear from MPI.
You're welcome to listen in, but we'll take you off the screen.
Okay.
Um, hi Ben. My, my question following up on your,
your, um, I guess your illustration with the emails.
So
I don't know, I- I feel like how much...
W- where is that fine line between how much information you're going to receive in
your email, whether it's a personal responsibility or a business responsibility to
check up or to, or do you wait for
organizations such as the MPI, which is massive, um, to
constantly bombard you with emails?
But then you would have to go through the weed to find the information that you
really need, so where is that fine balance?
'Cause I think there is counter argument to too much emails, but also too little
emails or is it really up to, you know, individual responsibilities
to also go to a public space and look for information?
I just wanted to hear your take on it.
Yeah, yeah, for sure. Look, like you can subscribe to the channel
for recalls for, for food when there is a food issue and you
get, you get a bombardment of emails about, f- m- all these
big businesses that have to recall their food because they've done...
They've stuffed it up and there's-
Yeah. ... they've put plastic in it or something.
Yeah.
So you get that bombardment of emails but you get to choose that.
But when it comes to the fees you charge, to me that is a
very separate thing and-
Right.
... it's, it's particularly difficult for small businesses.
If you're big businesses, you have a lawyer or a policy person who
l- who does, who does the weed, the pulling out of the weeds and everything.
But as a small business, you're it. There is no one else.
You have to do everything. So yes, I don't want to be bombarded with everything,
but I really do need to know
when, um, when, when there is something that directly affects me
like changing the fees I'm going to ch- that you're going to charge me.
To me that's, that is something that I should have a, uh, you know...
I- I should have a personal phone call, you know?
(laughs) It's like there just needs to be a very hard effort to commu-
to, um, engage small businesses and maybe there, you know, needs to
be a, um, a representative organization for small food
businesses, um, that would be... you know, that can then, um,
disseminate that information to them so that it's easier to connect with
them. But given that we are already registered,
um, for food safety, there is a clear way...
and it could be done by councils 'cause we've registered with councils.
There is a clear way that we can be contacted.
We've given our email address and if you want to change the
regulations th- or the fees for the regulations or maybe the
burden, then I do think there needs to be, um,
a, uh, a very specific email about it saying, "This affects
your business." I don't think it's okay to just say,
"Hey, we're making a, a change and you figure it out whether it affects you or
not." Like, no one has time for that.
That's just not fair to, to put the onus on us to figure that
out. Th- I think that just MPI needs to be smarter to figure out a
way and it has shown me that it can be smarter, it just doesn't
bother, like how it rewrote its whole s- um,
proposal for a- for another, um, change.
It can do that, it just doesn't and that's, you know,
that's not on. (laughs)
Okay, thank you. Um, we are going to invite MPI to answer some of our
questions. Could you very quickly, like in 30 seconds tell us what you've
paid in your charges when you did own the business?
Um, give us an idea as people who don't own small food businesses
what you were paying to government and to council.
Yes. I think for me, for my business, I was very efficient and it
worked out to about $600, maybe even $500
per year. Um, and that's because I was very good at
making all my own templates, all my own documents, digitizing them
myself and I emailed them ahead to my auditor, which most people don't have time to
do, but I did that and that brought the cost down because the auditor dean didn't
have to come and str- scroll through all my paperwork to find that.
But yeah, many businesses are saying they're paying 1,000 to 2,000 per
year for their regulatory cost which is...
for a tiny business is massive.
Awesome. Thank you so much. Okay, we'll take you off the screen.
We'll welcome our friends at MPI to the table. Please join us.
If you would, um, wouldn't mind just, um, just
quickly giving us a sense of who's in the room so we can ask the right person the
right question, that would be great.
That's fine, thank you. Um, welcome the opportunity to be here this afternoon.
I'll, I'll endeavor to ask, uh, most questions.
Uh, if I need to I'll call on my colleague Bruce Arnold, who's from our cost
recovery team and Jenny Bishop who's the director of food risk
management. Um, look, we're really pleased to be here this afternoon and we...
um, it's great to see Ben again. We've had a lot of engagement with Ben.
Um-
You're the Vince.
I'm the Vince, yes.
(laughs)
So my name Vince Arbuckle. I've had a lot of engagement with Ben. We've include...
you know, all the way to we've sent Simon down to Nelson to see
Ben in... on occasions and...You know, so we had a lot of engagement.
Um, the, the Food Act itself, um, is over 10 years old.
Um, there's a cornerstone assumption in the Food Act that there be, uh,
cost recovery dimensions in it, um, where it benefits food
businesses and not, not general public.
Uh, when the act was introduced, there was always an intention that it be
cost recovered. Uh, gov- government at the time
introduced, uh, temporary funding, uh, to enable the act to
proceed and there'd be some establishment costs.
And then, uh, then the c- current, current government, uh,
went through cabinet, uh, and we had a cost recovery
proposal. Uh, I think it's very important to make the point that this covers
around 39,000 businesses, a fair range.
It is, it's domestic businesses only.
It's not domes- not export businesses.
Export businesses have an entirely different regime.
Uh, when, when cabinet, uh, made the decision to proceed with the
consultation, which was from February to March
2024, we did email every registered
business. So we emailed in excess of 35,000
businesses, including Ben. Uh, we've checked that in
fine detail. Uh, so we went as far as we possibly could to make sure
that everyone was aware of the proposal without standard
six-week consultation period. We had around
321 submissions. Uh, they were, they were
considered, summarized, they went back to cabinet again as the normal
standard process. Uh, and then once final decisions were made, we then
once emailed again back to all those food businesses, including
Ben, uh, to confirm what the final decision
was. Um, we, as I said before, we had a fair bit of
engagement with Ben during that process.
Um, and he did bring to our attention some aspects of what
was proposed, which would have been unfair.
Uh, and it wasn't difficult for us to understand the point he was
making, uh, and we readily went and made those adjustments in terms of the
partial waivers, for instance. I've enjoyed the interaction with Ben.
Uh-
So have we.
And, and some of this, you know, he's right.
Sometimes it's hard to engage, to find channels for very small
businesses. You know, there are representative bodies for larger
businesses and food and grocery council, these sort of things.
But for small micro-businesses, you know, you, you use the
opportunities when you get them to talk to someone like Ben.
So we found that really valuable actually.
Um, and, uh, what the levy is funding
is, and, what we're calling a Food Act improvement program, which will, uh, we
believe, will benefit all food businesses.
We're already seeing some changes already.
So we've ex- exempted some, uh, home-based cake
makers from coverage for the Food Act.
We're going to review the schedules of the Food Act.
We're gonna provide, uh, free training for all food
services, uh, workers. That's gonna be very significant for
the hospitality industry. We will look at the, at
the, um, approach to the fee itself.
Uh, we understand the point that Ben is making around it's a flat fee at the
moment. We were very mindful when we introduced it about the
fees, about the, uh, cost impost. So we delayed it for a
year. It only commenced 1 July this year, um, whereas
the import levy commenced 1 July last year, and we phased it
over three years. So the, those who paid the, the people who paid the levy this
year have paid one-third of the levy and then it goes up to the full
levy in, in, in, uh, in the last year.
That makes sense.
Happy to take any questions.
I have some questions. We've got one here.
Just a quick question. Thank you so much, Vince.
Um, when you said that you emailed everyone, um,
did that include all of the businesses that were going to be charged the levy or-
... just as Ben said, just the ones that are registered-
No.
... with MPI?
No. No. I- i- if we extracted from our records and the council
records every registered food business, which is why it gets up to
36,000 or so-
Right.
... and we directly emailed all of them.
I've checked very carefully and we know we have emai- we did email
Ben. He's possibly confusing-
That's the problem.
He's also pop- on a notification system for us,
which is a notification for, for, for,
um, recalls. Um, so he's possibly confusing the
two.
Just a supplementary here.
Thank you.
Supplement. Um, the 36,000 that you've emailed out, do you know how many
of them have actually opened the emails?
I, I don't, I can't tell that. I, so-
Will there be an opportunity or any way in the system that you could see
people?
Um,
well- 'Cause I always struggle with that part, right?
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
You email everybody, but they're like, "You don't even email us." But you're like,
"Hey, actually, only 2% of the people open up emails anyway."
Yes.
Yes. So is emails really the effective way?
But then, is posting the effective way?
Everybody's moving now online. So I'm, I'm just curious.
Mm-hmm.
You don't have the answer now, that's fine.
But is there a way to find out if people are actually reading
We'll, we'll see if we can find that answer and, and, and check.
No, you're absolutely right. We get, we get a lot of emails, don't we?
Mm-hmm.
Some of it's spam and some of real.
Yeah. So, um, you know, is, uh, but we also
engage with all the representative bodies like Hospitality New Zealand and
Restaurant Association and various industry bodies.
Um, but no, you're right. We'll check that for you.
Supplementary. Yeah. Um, it's pro- it's probably worth just raising
the question, um, whether MB has, has considered
using some social media channels directed specifically towards micro and small
businesses-
Mm-hmm.
... to try and convey that information, 'cause that is really the vast majority of
people getting their information these days.
Mm-hmm.
True
that. It's like, it's a, it's a, it's a new, a new mechanism.
Well, it's not that, not that new now actually, but it s-
Mm-hmm.
... it is an effective mechanism for distributing information.
We do a lot for a lot of our public, um, communication
campaigns, so we communicate to the public for food safety with a lot of
social media, Facebook and TikTok and those things.
I hadn't thought about it being a good channel for food businesses, and I think
it's worth thinking about, um, had we had that invi-
up, possibly people could have been subscribing to that and picked it
up.
Yeah.
So, no, we can follow that up.
Miles Anderson
Are there other fees and levies that businesses like
Ben-... would have to pay to MPI for other
services?
No. Look, up until this point, there's been no other fee to MPI.
The fees they have paid are to territorial authorities or local councils.
Usually there are two. So there's a registration fee, um,
when you register your business as a food business, and there'll be an inspection
or verification fee when someone comes and checks your
business. So up until that point in, um...
so this was the first time there's been a direct MPI fee.
This... Sorry, can I have a supplement?
Mm-hmm.
This fee is,
um, in no way used for checking on the businesses?
No.
It's not?
No, it's not. No, it's not.
So it's not doubling up the same fee?
No, it's not. Not doubling it up, no.
Joseph Renner?
Y- just the, um, the question around the, um,
cost recovery principles and, and how that's...
You know, and I appreciate there's a policy balance to be struck here, um, in terms
of, you know, making it workable and not overly costly to administer, but also
where there is some consideration worthy of having it graduated
go- because of... If, if this is correct, what I'm reading here is that there's a
flat levy regardless of business size, whether it's micro, small, or a large
supermarket, or a large food operator, but it's the same cost.
Um, the question is whether that is actually cost recovery, um,
you know, considering the, the business size and, and its contribution-
Hm.
... to workload for
Mm-hmm.
That's a good question and, and it came through the submission process.
There was, there was, there were submitters who, who were, who were arguing,
uh, for that as a proposition. We did give it careful
consideration. The difficulty we had was we had no
access and we couldn't find any way in which we could to verifiable,
independent information about business size.
Mm.
You know, we... You, you can't get a high... You know, tax information.
You, there is no, there is no verifiable information that
confirms numbers of employees or the turnover.
So we would have to create a system of, um,
uh, self-report from the business to, to say,
"Well, I'm turnover below 25,000."
And, and that would be an honesty system, which we would need to verify, would...
So it would come with a-
Teethache?
... lot of overhead admin.
(laughs)
Um, we haven't given up on the idea.
Um, and one of the aspects of the Food Act Improvement Programme is
to see whether we could do something that, uh,
is, is, is better than a flat fee. Uh, we've got to balance the
admin versus the, you know, the, the, the purpose for which the money is being
gathered.
If, if you were to have an honesty self-reporting mechanism, um,
would there be
a scope within the rules that you operate under to,
to have some, um, uh, deterrent mechanism
if someone were to not be honest (laughs)
Yes, yes. Yes. I mean, um, what you could do is you could do a statu-
statutory de- declaration, uh, and then you could do, uh,
verification, uh, sample verification so people understood that it's
a serious declaration, uh, and you could do some form of
auditing just to check to make sure people are doing it correctly, a sample or
something. Um, so once again, that all, that all amounts to
work. You know, you got to email 35,000 people, ask them to
confirm their size, load that up, divide
by the, you know, $150 levy, sort of, and then
check back occasionally. So it will come with a price.
Can I propose something else that may, may be less workload?
Mm-hmm.
An opt-in system-
... where if someone wants to opt in, say, they are a smaller size and therefore
should
justifiably have a, have a, a lesser levy, then they could opt in to
that, that mechanism?
Uh, o- opt in to a lev- uh, you mean opt in to a lesser by
choice-
Correct.
Um, happy to have a look at that.
Vincent.
Um, I, I sense some interest from the committee in this.
I, I don't think this is our last time, um, coming to you with
questions, but they will be written questions.
But, um, just in our remaining minutes, I, I want
to really understand, and I know you, you have thought deeply about this in, in the
purpose of the act. This will, that will sort of hinge on whether
how, how much we can, um, put into this
inquiry, the... for the committee.
Um, so I've looked at the Food Act's purposes.
Um, you're, you're right that, uh, there's policy
intent there for cost recovery, um, but the purposes are
around, um, certainty and the facilitation
of a, of a food business system that is transparent.
Um, so
talk me through your thinking around the introduction of a new
levy by MPI and why that wouldn't be more
tiered to recognize that there's both a public benefit
to a food system which is safe and efficient, a private benefit, and
then that private benefit is unevenly felt, that small businesses
benefit in a different way than large businesses do. Um, and this comes to...
I'm, I'm trying to give you as much context as possible.
This goes to whether we, we could investigate
further, um,
i- in the way that the committee is empowered to do.
Hm. Um, you, you, you're correct that the Food Act has a number of
purposes, including, um, you know, maintenance of public health.
Um, uh, the Food Act will
continue to be funded a mix of, of Crown and cost
recovered. So there's about $1.7 million worth of Crown
funding to fund the, the very things you're talking
about in terms of public health, uh, compliance,
um, those sorts of things, chasing up issues all the way through to
prosecution where it's necessary.
So the public good aspects are
ca- pa- funded by Crown funding, and then there is a
separated out section which we would argue is covered,
or ought to have been, and then has now become funded
by, by a levy, which is... You know, we can point
to these benefits, um, generally
support business. No one business will
benefit-... you know, totally from all the, all the
services. Um, but, but that, but collectively they
will.
Okay. Um, and the l-
I... (sighs) I guess it's not really within our remit to think about whether it's
practically possible to split it.
But it is within our remit to think about the purpose of the Act, and whether you
should have. Um, so talk to me about the, any analysis
that you did around the impact on, you know, the coffee cart
versus the, the large producer, and how you thought about sharing,
um, at least the benefit of the services.
I can also imagine a world where MPI might try and do more for small
and micro businesses, but knowing that the sort of regulatory burden to
ensure that larger businesses were compliant was, was probably skewed and, skewed
he- more heavily.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Um, look, um, in, in part that is, um,
addressed in our final decision document.
Yeah.
Um, but I, I would argue actually, thus far,
is that small businesses have probably got the best, best part of the effort
actually. Um, and the first thing, first cab off the
rank has been the small home-based cake makers
who've, as a result of the resource we now have, when we've looked at
it, we've decided to, to remove them from.
So they've, they've not only no longer would they have the
levy, they would no longer be required to register and no longer be
verified. So, uh, that burden of regulation has been removed from
them. So, I, I think, you know, that actually
probably in the, for the foreseeable future, small businesses are
likely to benefit quite a lot, uh, from, from, from the levy
itself.
Would you, um, just to, to close this, um, be happy to provide
us with some of the advice around the, the exemption for the small home-based ca-
cake bakers? That will be-
Sure. ... helpful for us in sort of finding like for like.
Yes, happy to do that.
Thank you. Thank you so much-
Thank you.
... for coming in.
Thank you very much.
Very much appreciated the opportunity to speak with you, and thank you so much for
being so generous with your knowledge about this, this area of regulation.
Thank you very much. Thank
you.